---
layout: post
title: "About Simon"
description: FILL IN PLEASE
---

The following is a list of my programming experience and coursework. 

- Video/Audio extraction and processing (MeGUI, AviSynth, etc.)
- AP Computer Science (Java and OOP)
- Intro to CS (Python and Processing) 
- Data Structures (C++)
- Algorithms (no actual programming, only pseudocode)
- Design and Innovation (Arduino, Physical computing, Processing, P5.js)
- Computer System Organization (C and Assembly)
- Front End Web Development Bootcamp (HTML, CSS, JS, jQuery, AngularJS, Accessibility)
- Research Assistant at NYU Abu Dhabi Social Science Experiment Lab (created the front end of web based games using Redwood Framework, a server and clientside framework)
- Machine Learning (Python)
- Computer Networks (Java, Node.js, HTML, CSS, JS)

I am interested in photography. My major is Computer Science and Math because I believe the coursework from these majors will help me improve camera or post-production software technology. Some specific fields I'm interested in are computational photography, computer graphics, computer vision, and human computer interaction.

Apart from the fact that theoretical knowledge about database design is a must and a natural interest for Computer Scientists, I am interested in the projects that I can work on in this course. I am interested in photographic data like Instagram/Facebook/Flickr photos or Google Streetview images. I am also interested in the social data of SNS posts such as the number of likes, number of followers, the content of the comments, etc. I have worked with these data before but at a very unprofessional level and in an arbitrary direction. l I believe this course can help me handle these data more scientifically and accurately.
